# Project Title: Educational System Malpractice and Negligence on the real purpose basis of education
## Introduction
The education system of the Philippines has been highly influenced by the country’s colonial history.  That history has included periods of Spanish, American and Japanese rule and occupation.  The most important and lasting contributions came during America’s occupation of the country, which began in 1898.  It was during that period that English was introduced as the primary language of instruction and a system of public education was first established—a system modeled after the United States school system and administered by the newly established Department of Instruction.

Although the Philippine system of education has long served as a model for other Southeast Asian countries, in recent years that system has deteriorated. This is especially true in the more remote and poverty-stricken regions of the country.  While Manila, the capital and largest city in the Philippines, boasts a primary school completion rate of nearly 100 percent, other areas of the country, including Mindanao and Eastern Visayas, have a primary school completion rate of only 30 percent or less.  Not surprisingly, students who hail from Philippine urban areas tend to score much higher in subjects such as mathematics and science than students in the more rural areas of the country.

The Philippine educational system has followed multitudes of parameters and ideas from the previous implementation of the educational system that we adopt in the Americans until our educational system was influenced by different methods and approaches. But this project will be focusing not just on the sudden changes in the educational system in our country, instead, we will be focusing on the malpractice and negligence of the real purpose of the education system. 

The fundamental responsibility of the classroom teacher is to organize, prepare, and teach programs to accomplish certain student objectives. Critical reflection and inquiry are used by the classroom instructor to increase knowledge and skills in order to successfully engage students and improve their learning. The employee's contribution to the school program outside of the classroom grows as the classroom instructor develops experience. All classroom instructors may be expected to do additional responsibilities in addition to their rostered teaching duties, providing that the obligation is proportionate to the teacher's wage range, qualifications, training, and experience. But as we further do the research, we found out that, teachers nowadays are failing to do the main purpose of their profession due to other requirements mandated by the Department of education for the documentation and paper related works that somehow taking away their opportunity to focus on teaching. 

## Problem Statement 
Our educational system has been plagued by conflicts over the years that have continued unabated to this day. Among the plethora of difficulties, two have managed to stand out as particularly important: quality and relevance. The Philippines' biggest educational challenge is a short-sighted policy of forsaking education quality and quantity for economic considerations. There are several issues confronting the country's educational system, one of which is the diminishing quality of education. It's unusual to hear college professors complain about the caliber of students that attend their classes. They bemoan the kids' incapacity to write even a single right sentence, let alone a paragraph. Private schools have been assailed as profit-making institutions turning out half-baked graduates who later become part of the nation’s educated unemployed. All these are indications of the poor quality of education. There are multiple factors that have led to low educational standards. Studies and fact-finding commissions have shown that the deteriorating quality of education is due to the low government budget for education; poor quality of teachers; poor management of schools; poor school facilities such as laboratory and library facilities poor learning environment; the content of the curriculum; inadequate books and science equipment; the poor method of instruction; shortages of classrooms and others.

There are other elements to consider while evaluating a teacher's abilities. Teachers are given starvation salaries, but that is only part of their tragic story. Teachers' work is made even more difficult by their daily battles with decrepit classrooms, overcrowded classes, and a shortage of teaching supplies, among other things. Aside from classroom instructions, instructors are responsible for a variety of time-consuming and exhausting tasks that are unrelated to the teaching function. The National Research and Development Center for Teacher Education under the DECS listed 76 extracurricular activities performed by public school teachers. Such activities include Operation Timbang, census taking, tax consciousness drive, Clean and Green Drive, Alay-Tanim, Alay-Lakad, fundraising campaigns, lining the streets to welcome foreign dignitaries, etc. To do all these, teachers are forced to work two or three hours overtime every day. They also have to report during weekends and holidays and even during their yearly vacation time. 

The main task of the teacher in the education process should focus on the learning progress and the deliverance of lessons for the competencies of the students. But as we dig deeper into the role of the teacher in the community, we will realize the non-related things a teacher still needs to perform. Encountering teachers having the same issue and complaining about the paper-related compliance they need to submit also takes a huge amount of time they could use in improving the teaching-learning process. 

## Significance of the Proposed Study
Through the comprehensive exploration of this study on the real purpose basis of education, The influence of Malpractice and Negligence will be unraveled, emphasized, scrutinized. Moreover, this research will elucidate how this principle prevailed on the Educational System in the Philippines.

In this regard, this study will give awareness to society on how this Malpractice and Negligence affects the Educational System. Moreover, through the analysis made by this study, educational entities and institutions will have a new approach on how to teach and provide high quality education.

In addition to this, the analysis that is presented in this study will convey valuable information for future research and may lead to a more in-depth analysis of it.

## Methods
This section discusses the practical " Who, What, Where, When, and to what extent" of the research project at hand. More precisely, it refers to the researchers' methodical design of a study in order to ensure that the results are valid and trustworthy and that they address the research's aims and objectives. The method chosen for this study is a descriptive analysis method.

Teachers should be merely focusing on teaching students the main task. As there is allotted time for work things should be accomplished within that given time schedule. Due to unsudden things and extra work they need to accomplish the graph below clearly shows the data that most of the teachers usually do their extra work in the evening. Teachers are very known for “take-home” which indicates the work they bring home to do. This graph clearly states that the 8 hours of work period are not enough for the things they need to accomplish. 

## Expected Output


## References
https://www.studycountry.com/guide/PH-education.htm#:~:text=The%20education%20system%20of%20the,country%2C%20which%20began%20in%201898.
